This tutorial summarizes the recommended operating model for safe, repeatable, evidence-rich resilience validation.
Run destructive drills only in approved non-production environments that match the topology you want to learn.
Start every cycle with topology discovery, health checks, configuration reports, backup recoverability, and MAA readiness.
Use scenario readiness buckets to avoid unsupported topology and provider-specific destructive actions.
Refresh backups and targeted protection before destructive drills, especially after structural changes or prior recoveries.
A dry-run should show target selection, planned actions, guardrails, runbook hints, and evidence paths before any fault is injected.
Execution requires explicit confirmation and should be paired with monitoring, timestamps, and a rollback or recovery owner.
Recovery is complete only after the database, PDBs, services, application path, backups, and validation reports are healthy again.
Keep manifests, runbooks, audit logs, reports, screenshots, and HTML artifacts so drills support training and compliance.
After every drill, update scenarios, guardrails, runbooks, reports, and topology notes based on what the lab taught you.